exampleSite/content/blog/internet-safety-rules-to-live-by.md, before:

+++
author = ["stephenajulu"]
categories = ["Cyber Security"]
date = 2021-01-10T14:55:00Z
description = ""
image = "/images/internetsafeyrules-1.png"
tags = ["bitwarden", "authy", "two factor authentication", "2 factor authentication", "2fa", "encryption", "authentication", "password manager", "antivirus", "firewall", "security", "computer security", "information security policy", "password policy", "cyber threats", "data breaches", "security policy", "data encryption", "information security", "data security", "data protection", "internet security", "cyber security"]
title = "Internet Safety Rules to Live By"

+++
 1. Keep Personal Information Professional and Limited
 2. Keep Your Privacy Settings On
 3. Practice Safe Browsing
 4. Use a Secure VPN Connection, try [ProtonVPN](https://protonvpn.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "ProtonVPN") from the same people who brought you [ProtonMail](https://protonmail.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "ProtonMail") a secure mail service provider
 5. Be Careful What You Download and Where You Download It From
 6. Choose Strong Passwords(12 characters and more) and use a password manager e.g. [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Bitwarden")(our personal favorite) or [1Password](https://1password.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "1Password")
 7. Enable 2 Factor Authentication and use a service like [Authy by Twilio](https://authy.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Authy") 
 8. Make Online Purchases From Trusted Sites
 9. Always check that the website you are using uses HTTPS eg https://google.com. _Tip: check for a padlock at the end of the search bar/URL_
10. Be Careful What You Post as it can be used against you
11. Be Careful Who You Meet Online as there are some with malicious intent
12. Keep Your Operating System and Software Up To Date, you can use a website like [Ninite](https://ninite.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Ninite")
13. Learn how to spot scams and frauds
14. Always check the link of anything you have been sent be it through email or by a friend. If the domain name is suspicious don't click it e.g. http://safaricomfreeairtime.net or http://saffreeoffer.com or http://giftcards.winurl.site/?c=carrefour and others.
15. Don't share your password and other sensitive information even if it's Google asking for it.
16. Make sure your computer has a firewall and that it's on.
17. Make sure you have a reputable antivirus. Window's Antivirus has become really good. Try adding [Malwarebytes](https://www.malwarebytes.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Malwarebytes").
18. Encrypt your Hard Drive, Mobile Phone and any other data storage. All modern OS have an encryption feature.
19. Back up your data. They say no matter what you do, you can never have bullet proof security. Backing up your data will prevent misfortunes such as ransomware and others.

Bookmark this article so as to constantly remember.

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io OwlSec Co updated exampleSite/content/blog/internet-safety-rules-to-live-by.md

exampleSite/content/blog/internet-safety-rules-to-live-by.md, after:

+++
author = ["stephenajulu"]
categories = ["Cyber Security"]
date = 2021-01-10T14:55:00Z
description = "Here are internet security rules and tips to leave by. A must read in the information age."
image = "/images/internetsafeyrules-1.png"
tags = ["bitwarden", "authy", "two factor authentication", "2 factor authentication", "2fa", "encryption", "authentication", "password manager", "antivirus", "firewall", "security", "computer security", "information security policy", "password policy", "cyber threats", "data breaches", "security policy", "data encryption", "information security", "data security", "data protection", "internet security", "cyber security"]
title = "Internet Safety Rules to Live By"

+++
 1. Keep Personal Information Professional and Limited
 2. Keep Your Privacy Settings On
 3. Practice Safe Browsing
 4. Use a Secure VPN Connection, try [ProtonVPN](https://protonvpn.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "ProtonVPN") from the same people who brought you [ProtonMail](https://protonmail.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "ProtonMail") a secure mail service provider
 5. Be Careful What You Download and Where You Download It From
 6. Choose Strong Passwords(12 characters and more) and use a password manager e.g. [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Bitwarden")(our personal favorite) or [1Password](https://1password.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "1Password")
 7. Enable 2 Factor Authentication and use a service like [Authy by Twilio](https://authy.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Authy") 
 8. Make Online Purchases From Trusted Sites
 9. Always check that the website you are using uses HTTPS eg https://google.com. _Tip: check for a padlock at the end of the search bar/URL_
10. Be Careful What You Post as it can be used against you
11. Be Careful Who You Meet Online as there are some with malicious intent
12. Keep Your Operating System and Software Up To Date, you can use a website like [Ninite](https://ninite.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Ninite")
13. Learn how to spot scams and frauds
14. Always check the link of anything you have been sent be it through email or by a friend. If the domain name is suspicious don't click it e.g. http://safaricomfreeairtime.net or http://saffreeoffer.com or http://giftcards.winurl.site/?c=carrefour and others.
15. Don't share your password and other sensitive information even if it's Google asking for it.
16. Make sure your computer has a firewall and that it's on.
17. Make sure you have a reputable antivirus. Window's Antivirus has become really good. Try adding [Malwarebytes](https://www.malwarebytes.com/utm_source=techwitke.netlify.app "Malwarebytes").
18. Encrypt your Hard Drive, Mobile Phone and any other data storage. All modern OS have an encryption feature.
19. Back up your data. They say no matter what you do, you can never have bullet proof security. Backing up your data will prevent misfortunes such as ransomware and others.

Bookmark this article so as to constantly remember.
